---
author: Ricardo Batista
categories:
- Bulgaria
date: '2024-06-07'
description: Learn how to get your diploma, transcript, or certificate from your educational
  institution. Follow these steps and prepare the required documents and fees.
draft: false
meta_title: 'How to Obtain Official Educational Documents: A Step-by-Step Guide'
title: 'How to Obtain Official Educational Documents: A Step-by-Step Guide'
translationKey: bulgaria-issuance_of_an_educational_document
---

## Description
### What is it?
Issuing an educational document is the process by which official academic records, including diplomas, transcripts, or certificates, are generated by an educational institution. 

### Who needs it?
The service is necessary for students who have completed their studies and need to present their educational qualifications to employers or other educational institutions for further studies. 

## Procedure
1. Visit your educational institution's administrative office.
2. Request your official educational documents.
3. Fill out the forms required by your institution. 
4. Pay the necessary processing fees.
5. Wait for the specified processing time. 
6. Receive your educational documents either by mail or by picking them up in person.

## Required Documents
- Identification documents such as Passport or ID card.
- Proof of payment for the processing fee.
- Application form for the issuance of the document.

## Providers that can do it for you

_(We are currently curating the best providers. If you are or know a provider, please contact us or edit the page directly)_

| Provider        |     Website     |     Timelines    |       Cost      |
| :-------------: | :-------------: |  :-------------: | :-------------: |

## Additional details
- Processing time and costs may vary by institution.
- Online requests may also be possible with some institutions.
- Always check up-to-date instructions from your particular institution's administrative office as procedures may vary. 

Please refer to the institutional guidelines or contact the administrative office of the respective educational institution for precise information.
## Related Posts

- [Complete Guide to Diploma Renewal: Process, Documents & More](https://tramitit.com/guides/bulgaria/diploma_renewal/)
- [How to Register for an Educational Institution Easily](https://tramitit.com/guides/bulgaria/educational_institution_registration/)
- [Recognition of Foreign Diplomas in Bulgaria: Process & Requirements](https://tramitit.com/guides/bulgaria/recognition_of_a_foreign_diploma/)
- [How to Obtain a Criminal Record Certificate: Steps and Requirements](https://tramitit.com/guides/bulgaria/issuance_of_a_criminal_record_certificate/)
- [Guide to Changing Your Address: Steps and Required Documents](https://tramitit.com/guides/bulgaria/change_of_current_address/)